---
title: "CS 208: Computer Architecture"
date: 2019-08-31T11:55:43-04:00
draft: false
---
"The course introduces the students to the basic notions of computer architecture and, in particular, to the choices of the Instruction Set Architecture and to the memory hierarchy of modern systems."
<!--more-->

# Introduction to IT

## Information for Society

Our society has benefitted greatly from the fluid exchange of information
made possible by Computers.

## Information Technology

Tools in IT allow us to store and manipulate data at a faster pace and
a greater scale than we ever could manually.

## Improved Computer Performance

Moore's law has held up quite well over the past 30 years, and is only beginning
to taper off. This law states that every 2 years, the number of transistors in a CPU
die doubles. In addition to that, we've also seen consistent improvements in processor
performance and processor clock speeds.

## Ubiquity Of Processors

Devices including some form of processor are omnipresent. Everything from personal computers,
to lightbulbs now includes processing in some form or another.

## Complex Processors

Processors themselves have been getting more and more complex. With modern processors
containing billions of transistors executing billions of operations per second,
we need to thank carefully about how to design them in order to provide the necessary
operations at the desired performance.

# Course Goals

## Processor Architecture

- How is a processor designed?
- How does a processor work?

We'll need to understand how to make a basic, but functional processor
using VHDl, as well as how to program it using an Assembly language.

## Computer Arithmetic

- How do computer manipulate numbers?

This includes looking at different representations of numbers, including
their tradeoffs, as well as the different operations a computer will
need to include.

## Memory

- How do we present an uniform interface over finite and complex devices?
- How do you avoid slowing down the system because of memory?

This will look at the cache hierarchies commonly in place in most systems.

